We will now shortly demonstrate a few useful concepts in the terminal. You are expected to know how to operate on a virtual terminal (prompt, commandline) and have access to a `sh` shell to the least, or use a Windows equivalent (e.g. Cygwin, possibly PowerShell), to be able and follow along these instructions. Git won't be explained in depth, so some proficiency is required however, just typing along without knowing *anything* about git would work too. Now we did choose to take an approach which relies heavily on screenshots to provide a bit more information than one might normally do. This is both to the advantage of you, the reader, as well as the writer which may be able to use his or her time more efficiently. It also (you might think of that as a downside or positive thing) does not allow for easy copy/paste of the commands. Usually we either do one thing, if write out commands fully we're not likely to use screenshots, if we use screenshots then we're not going to type the stuff out fully. To provide some more clarity in the several components of the tutorial (outline, asides, quotes) we also decided to add some useful icons and styling to the extent possible, since Markdown (MD) / GitHub Flavored Markdown (GFM) is somewhat limited in this respect (of HTML classes and styling, it's not really fun). So instead of heavily styling on each and every element, chapter, aside using HTML/CSS, we use clear to understand pictograms to aid in your better understanding of what kind of information you are given. Thats it.

The pictograms are as follows

((s)) (terminal) screenshot shot.png
((!)) alert.png
((c)) clipboard.png -- you should copy/paste this
((a)) archive.png -- you need to checkout a tag, or a tag has been given
((i)) idea.png lightbulb -- elementary ideas behind something
((f)) file.png -- a file should be opened because work will take place there
((d)) compass.png -- a general direction is given, usually for e.g. extra work, where to go next, general approach to something
((&)) flag.png -- a task or goal we set forth and want to track, give feedback or progress report on where we stand
((Δ)) delta.png -- messages and deltas that are supposed to highlight the patterns/format of the messages and deltas
((P)) savepoint.png -- persistence?
gears : config
wrench : adjust
plus : add code
file : to file
folder : file in folder
brush : dom rendering
mail : message


Since the use of terminal screenshots is supposed to provide enough insight for you to be able and take it from there. On occassion we might demonstrate the use of incorrect commands, those can be recognized by the terminal `stderr` (standard output, something which all terminals have as a standard, together with `stdout` and `stdin`) error message. We use a terminal colored prompt on this occassion to make it a bit easier on the eye to distinguish user input (the colored prompt) from the terminal output `stdout` or `stderr` error messages. Also you may find there are cases where the purple cursor is at the end of a line with a command (partially) typed out, yet somehow there is already terminal output below the purple cursor. These are cases where we've used the terminal autocompletion feature to demonstrate some of the options/arguments/values available to us at that time. Obviously, this does not work when there is only 1 option it can choose from, so those cases might be illustrated by just executing the command. The username (`user`), host (`localhost`), domain (`domain.tld`) or project names (like `app-tutorial`) are, of course, arbitrary and serve as placeholders and show-case examples of generic naming conventions.

((!)) Keep in mind that changing the tutorial project name will require you to translate these into corresponding namespaces, which can be a little painful for fluently following along the tutorial while working with references, dependencies and such. Some parts of the tutorial involve copy/paste actions.

You may choose to fork this repository or just fork a local copy on

((ts)) (terminal screenshot)
01





